Now it's time to talk to you about the
Mezzanine Community Initiative we've been
kind of hinting out throughout
the course over the last few videos.
Now, I know we've been talking
about this mezzanine ecosystem and
everything that it entails.
But it's not as easy to just say, hey,
go do this, go build the mezzanine,
without offering you the means or
the channels for which to do so.
Now that is where the Mezzanine
Community Initiative was born.
So in this video, we're going to
to talk you about the initiative.
What exactly is it?
What is it?
How can you find out more about it?
How you contribute and
in what ways you can contribute.
What is the pipeline of mezzanines
that are going to be coming out
over the course of
hopefully the near future.
Acknowledgements for
the repository itself.
Some of our key contributors and
the people who are maintaining it.
And then how you can get involved.
And for those of you who
are checking out the slide here,
you can see there's some
mezzanines on the slide.
These were not made by big companies.
These were made by people like you,
people in the community,
people who just wanted to get
involved building something for
their own use that they then allowed
the community to consume and use as well.
So again,
a very good initiative that's still in
its infancy but already showing results.
So kudos to everyone that's
already been involved.
Now I can bubble on about
the Mezzanine Initiative.
The best thing for
you to do is to go read about it.
We've already put time into
the repository, there's an about section,
how to contribute.
There's a nice little section for learning
our contribution policy, so to say.
You can find our boards that have already
been made, different stuff in there.
There's a lot to read about.
github.com/96boards/mezzanine-community.
Please check that out,
read some more and if you have any
things that you would like us to know
drop us a line in the issue section.
So there's a way to contribute already.
If you feel that you want to know
something about the section that's
not already documented in the repo,
just drop us a line.
Now, why was this Mezzanine formed?
And this is kind of a myth,
I want to touch on this.
I thought it was just kind of fun,
but if you build it, they will come.
Now, this Mezzanine Initiative
wasn't necessarily formed because
we wanted to create something grand
that we could own, 96Boards could own.
This was created by community.
This is created by community and
for community.
Now, looking at, if you build it they
will come, that's not entirely true.
I call it a myth, because our focus is not
just to build something that nobody wants.
We want to build something
that everybody wants, or
at least a lot of people want, right?
So if you build it, document it,
market it and maintain it, they'll come.
And if you do it properly, they will stay
and that's the goal of this initiative.
We want to make sure that the people
who are getting involved in this,
genuinely care about the well-being of the
community and consuming everyone's needs.
The win, win, win of open source and
that's what we're really geared towards.
We really want to set that as
an example for this initiative, and
the initiatives to come.
So for those of you who want to get
started with the Mezzanine Initiative,
remember this motto.
[LAUGH]
>> And I think you hit a very good point.
For those who want to get started, right?
So I think I have mentioned
this to you before,
I am more of a software
applications development guy.
So hardware design is always
that hurdle for me to cross.
It's taking that first step into that
space is always daunting for me, right?
Since the Mezzanine ecosystem is very,
very defined,
like we talked about this with the
guidelines on how to develop a Mezzanine.
And with the whole open source community
where somebody can come in and
consume work that has already been done
by these great industry professionals.
It's a a very good starting point for
somebody who is starting
off in hardware design.
Not just 96Board ecosystem but
somebody who wants to play
around with hardware design.
It's a good starting point.
>> Absolutely, and
in fact, this is, you can see it,
it's in bold, it's the last point here.
This is a great entry point, right?
So, we'll talk about that a little
more as we elaborate on this.
But what is this repository and
how can you contribute to it?
It is a open source repository, right?
Now, we've tried our best to make sure
that the license is on this repository
because there is a barrier of entering,
and you have to learn how to do things.
And getting used to open source,
in general,
if you aren't already familiar
with it can be slightly daunting.
So we've tried to make
the licenses as loose as possible.
You can consume very openly
our templates which we have many
to choose from at this point now.
You can consume very openly and
you can just start plugging away.
Getting familiar with different
computer rated design programs that
are template catered too.
And then when you've created something and
you want to contribute it back to our
repository, you can contribute it
back with a different license.
That's one of the beauties of it.
Now we would encourage everyone to
contribute it back with another open
license that allows people to contribute
and consume and contribute as well, right?
But there are no limits and
the repository is geared towards
hopefully helping everyone.
So again, that's something
that we would look at, right?
Experienced maintainers, and
this goes right back into what John was
talking about with regards to how he's
a software guy, but
maybe you want to get into hardware.
Now, the people who
are maintaining this repository,
which we are going to give credit
to in just a second, we have
very experienced people that have been in
the hardware industry for a long time.
One of our guys, Michael Welling, he's the
guy who's maintaining our kiCAD template.
So if you have questions on kiCAD and
you want to get into open source
computer aided drafting or
computer aided design, then this is
the repository for you to start at.
Everyone is very kind.
Everyone is very helpful.
You want to develop your first piece
of hardware, consume our template.
Work with our repository,
with our maintainers.
And boom there you go,
your first experiences is under your belt,
add that to your resume [LAUGH].
Very helpful community, so even though
someone might not be a maintainer,
we have all these channels.
And we touched on them kind of
in the resources video, but
all these channels for people to kind
of interact and help each other out.
A very engaging, very,
again, vibrant community.
And, once again, it's a great entry point.
So for those of you who have
zero hardware experience.
For those of you who have
zero open source experience.
We're not there to make fun of you.
We're there to help you.
Our maintainers are there to help you.
We want to make sure that you learn and
have the best experience possible
with your first open source contributions,
and this is a good place to do that.
Not only,
I don't think I touched on it, but
not only do we offer the ability to
submit issues on our repository,
not only can you join us in our IRC
chat at #openhours or #96boards.
But we have weekly video conference calls,
I mean you can join us me,
Rajan, the maintainers of the repository,
you can join us all on a weekly basis and
have fun with us and
learn about open source on weekly basis.
So, great entry point for
any of you who want to just kind of
continue on working in this world.
Now I mentioned templates.
We have currently three templates.
If you are familiar with kiCAD, Altium or
EagleCAD, you can consume our templates
and built a Mezzanine right off the bat.
We've already confirmed the locations of
the high speed and low speed headers.
In fact, this board right
here was one of the boards,
I don't know if you can see that there,
but this right here was one of the boards
that was built right out of
the Mezzanine Initiative.
It's just a simple IO board.
The main purpose was to test
that the high speed and
the low speed header were
perfectly positioned to snap in
to the dragging board 410C footprint,
the 96 points footprint.
That came out of our Mezzanine initiative.
So we've confirmed all
of our CAD templates.
Consume, modify, contribute,
that's your path.
Looking at the pipeline in the future,
what kind of boards is this
initiative working on?
You might think, newbies,
community people,
they're working on nothing very complex,
but that's not true.
Our people are working on
some very interesting things.
Already, we have on
the docket GPS Mezzanine.
A new, more complex compliance
version of the I/O testing Mezzanine.
We're working on DSI touch displays.
Possibly an RPi header,
similar to what you saw in another
video with the arduino header.
HiFi which is a high end audio mezzanine.
LoWPAN 3G network, industrial
neroban network mezzanines, and
then Remote Power Mezzanine.
So I mean, allowing you to cycle
your 96Boards anywhere in the world.
And the list goes on and on.
Again, check out the repository to
find out more about this pipeline and
contribute to the pipeline.
If there is something you
want to see on there.
Who are our contributors?
Right now, and I know that this
video could at some point go stale.
But right now our primary contributors are
the folks you see on the screen, I want to
just make a shout out, Michael Welling,
Rafael Christ, and Gustavo Pinheiro.
I'm not going to shout out to myself,
Sahaj Sarup also.
>> I'll do that,
shout out to Robert Wolff.
>> [LAUGH] Thank you.
But yeah, so as you can see, you have a
lead maintainer who specializes in kiCAD,
that's Michael Welling.
You also have two other maintainers
that specialize in Altium and Eagle.
So you want to work on this hardware, you
want to develop something that's usable,
that's real, that's tangible, that you
can access and have some fun with,
these guys are going to help you on
your path in the open source world.
And we'll be there to help,
steer it forward.
Again, there's a link to
the Mezzanine Community Initiative.
How can you get involved?
I kind of covered all that.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Just reach out.
Reach out, go to the Mezzanine repository,
reach out to us,
open an issue, join us on IRC chat.
We look forward to interacting
with you as much as possible.
Join us during our open hours calls, join
us during our weekly Mezzanine meetings,
and there you go,
that's how you get involved.
We'll be there all the time.
You want to wrap this one up?
>> Yeah, so like always,
it's time to pause and replay.
Let's take a look at some
resources that we have.
In this section, we took a look at
the community initiative, right?
So we have a couple of
resources on there for
the community initiative GitHub,
that's on there.
And like Robert said, go poke around,
go read up on the community initiative.
Anybody who is getting started
with hardware design and
just 96Boards Ecosystem,
it's a very good starting place for you.
Yeah, we'll see you in the next video.
I believe we are going to be
talking about verticals and
how to create your path to product.
>> Yap.